Improvements to the Software.md (#437)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/getting-started/software.md

# Software overview

> There are countless use cases for financial tools, so there are almost as many application solutions per use case. Bitcoin’s global functionality adds complexity that may require adapting your application to foreign languages, cultures, and legal frameworks.

Author: Adding comment by @sqcken for future reference:

> I chopped this down significantly. We need fewer word meatloafs. Is there a way to clear it up?

Reviewer: What does he mean by `Is there a way to clear it up?`?

Taking another look at the page content, I'd change this intro now. The page is not just about financial tools as it includes miners and nodes. It's more that the unique architecture of Bitcoin has resulted in several categories of software. Some are for interacting with the currency (wallets) and others for interacting with the network (nodes, miners). CLIs are a text-based UI, contrasted with a GUI. Maybe all we need is something simple like this:
`The unique history and architecture of Bitcoin has resulted in a few distinct categories of software, with each one serving a distinct purpose.`

Author: Replaced the intro https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/437/commits/2a8065210dd4b367035f82cd0cbc35e444b39a95

Provided below is an overview of standard and specialized application categories.

## Command-line interfaces (CLI)

> Primarily used by developers, command-line interfaces offer feature-rich ways to interact with blockchains. They can be thought of as general-purpose toolboxes, so they require certain technical knowledge and are not optimized for specific use cases. New features are often first included in a CLI and then later added to graphical user interfaces (GUI).

Author: Adding comment by @sqcken for future reference:

>  They can be thought of as general-purpose toolboxes, so they require certain technical knowledge and are not optimized for specific use cases.

> Confusing. If they are general purpose, why do they require specific technical knowledge?

Reviewer: Generic tools can be used in many ways. Doing specific things with them requires you to know exactly how to use the tools in the right way to get your desired results.

To give an example, I can use the general-purpose photo-editing tool Photoshop to apply cool filters to my photos, but then I really need to understand the complex UI, as well as color channel mixing, saturation, exposure, etc. Or I can use the specialized filters Instagram provides and be done in 5 seconds with 2 taps and not understanding what just happened.

Author: Ok, makes sense, got it 😄

> Primarily used by developers, command-line interfaces offer feature-rich ways to interact with blockchains. They can be thought of as general-purpose toolboxes, so they require certain technical knowledge and are not optimized for specific use cases. New features are often first included in a CLI and then later added to graphical user interfaces (GUI).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Primarily used by developers, Bitcoin CLIs offer feature-rich ways to interact with Bitcoin. They can be thought of as general-purpose toolboxes, so they require certain technical knowledge and are not optimized for specific use cases. New features are often first included in a CLI and then later added to graphical user interfaces (GUI).
```

They do much more than just interact with the blockchain and it should be put into context that we are discussing Bitcoin CLIs not CLIs in general.

   layout = "float-right-desktop"
%}

> If blockchain is a public database, block explorers are simply windows into that database. They let users view data about specific transactions, latest blocks, block height, and so on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Block explorers are simply windows into the public Bitcoin blockchain. They let users view data about specific transactions, latest blocks, block height, and so on. Some block explorers such as [KYCP](https://kycp.org/#/) have more specific use cases such as tracking the privacy of your bitcoin UTXOs.
```

Expanded this paragraph slightly as currently on the website there is a big white space that would look a bit better filled.  https://bitcoin.design/guide/getting-started/software/#block-explorers

Author: Up to @GBKS if he wants this in.

Reviewer: As this white space only exists on desktop, I would not add extra text just for that specific visual appearance.

There is another short paragraph below the image, we can just combine the two paragraphs to balance the columns.

Author: Done in https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/437/commits/2a8065210dd4b367035f82cd0cbc35e444b39a95

</div>

Explorers also provide insight into bigger picture activity on the Bitcoin network, such as daily transaction numbers. For example, there are typically fewer transactions on weekends, which results in lower fees, which are ideal for low-priority transactions.

> ## Wallets

Reviewer 2: How could we integrate Lightning into this section? Food for thought for another PR.

   layout = "float-right-desktop"
%}

> Wallets are perhaps the most important Bitcoin applications. They provide easy-to-use graphic interfaces designed for broad audiences that let Bitcoin owners send, receive, and store coins. Wallets don’t always offer the full functionality of a CLI but instead focus on general use cases like making payments and browsing transactions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Wallets are perhaps the most important Bitcoin applications. They provide easy-to-use graphical user interfaces (GUIs) designed for broad audiences that let bitcoin owners send, receive, store and manage their coins. Wallet GUIs don’t offer the full functionality of a CLI but instead focus on general use cases like making payments and browsing transactions.
```

Due to Bitcoin’s open-source nature, anyone with the technical skills can develop a Bitcoin wallet. Many code libraries are available to simplify this task.

Wallet features vary by application but always include wallet setup, balance and transaction records, and the ability to send and receive bitcoin. The full range of features that wallets may support is broad and includes security and privacy options, currency exchange features, accounting tools, interoperability, accessibility, and localization options. The features you include should be based on the needs of your users.

Some of these features come with highly complex technical challenges. One of which is reliance on third-party services, a sensitive topic for bitcoin applications since they require a high level of trust. Wallets may not support specific features or implement a component in a particular manner for this reason.

> Another reason is that standards continue to evolve as technology matures. Even fundamental aspects of Bitcoin like address formats and key generation are implementable in incompatible ways.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another reason is that standards continue to evolve as Bitcoin matures. Even fundamental aspects of Bitcoin like address formats and key generation are implementable in incompatible ways.
```

   layout = "float-right-desktop"
%}

> Payment processing applications offer easy-to-use online stores and point-of-sale experiences paired with complex feature sets for merchants to manage their inventories, track their accounts, quickly ship products, and integrate with other services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Payment processing applications offer easy-to-use online stores and point-of-sale (POS) experiences paired with complex feature sets for merchants to manage their inventories, track their accounts, quickly ship products, and integrate with other services.
```

We should plug BTCPay here as an example of an open-source payment processor.

</div>

## Exchanges

<div class="center" markdown="1">

> Exchanges lets users swap between currencies and typically fall in three general categories. Consumer-focused exchanges let users make trades directly with the exchange. This is ideal for occasional use.

Reviewer 2: Consumer-focused exchanges isn't really that clear. This is referring to simple buy and sell exchanges like Swan Bitcoin yeah?

Author: Probably.

   layout = "float-right-desktop"
%}

Exchanges focused on investors and traders usually list many different cryptocurrencies. They allow users to trade with each other by submitting buy and sell requests on currency pairs. These products are generally for experienced users. They offer complex trading features and countless ways to analyze price movements.

> Decentralized exchanges fall In between these categories, focusing on occasional use or trading, but are, as their name implies, based on an open marketplace without a central authority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Decentralized exchanges fall in between these categories, focusing on occasional use or trading, but are, as their name implies, based on an open marketplace without a central authority.
```

   layout = "float-right-desktop"
%}

> A node connects to and participates in the bitcoin network to download and exchange transaction data. Some wallets have built-in nodes and some node software also supports wallet functionality. The minimum implementation of a node however is that of syncing data and allowing other software a user has to access it.

Author: Adding comment by @sqcken for future reference, this one is about the "Mining" and "Node section.

> This feels like we need more here, it just doesn’t really describe hardware mining. The node section feels light, too.

Reviewer 2: Could elaborate the mining bit more and detail how people who have mining hardware can choose to operate different firmware based on their needs. An example of this is braiins OS+ https://braiins.com/os/plus

Author: We should probably open an issue on how to expand those.

Reviewer: We have a full [page about nodes](https://bitcoin.design/guide/glossary/node/) now under the Glossary.

Not sure how much we need about mining as it's not super relevant to using bitcoin as a currency. The tech primer includes [a bit about mining](https://bitcoin.design/guide/getting-started/technology-primer/#how-are-transactions-confirmed), could we just link to that?

Author: Added a link https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/437/commits/2a8065210dd4b367035f82cd0cbc35e444b39a95

For mining, since Tech Primier is being worked on, I would avoid adding extra links to it atm, let's get back to it once we're sure how it'll shape up.

> A network of computers called nodes maintains the blockchain. Individuals and groups running open-source Bitcoin software operate nodes. A node participates in the Bitcoin network by verifying activity on its blockchain. Some wallets have built-in nodes, and some node software supports wallet functionality. However, the minimum implementation of a node is syncing data and allowing other software a user has to access it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A node is simply a computer running a Bitcoin client. Nodes verify transaction data on the Bitcoin blockchain and ensure the Bitcoin rules are being followed by network participants. Some wallets have built-in nodes, and some node software comes packaged with wallet functionality. However, the minimum implementation of a node is syncing data and allowing other software a user has to access it.
```

Could add some details about how different types of nodes exist (linking to nodes glossary page for more details).

Author: Can we just say `software`instead of `client? I am not sure if a newbie would understand the sentence you suggested.

Reviewer: Agree with using the term software, I also find client confusing.

Author: Added both suggestions and a link https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/437/commits/2a8065210dd4b367035f82cd0cbc35e444b39a95

Reviewer 2: Yep software is good too
